IBX-10684: Document translation management (#3249)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/multisite/translations_management/translate_with_cli.md

---
description: Use CLI command to translate content items.
edition: lts-update
month_change: true
---

# Translate content items with CLI

> For the purposes of batch processing, automation and other scripted actions, the [Translations management](translations_management_guide.md) package exposes a command that automatically translates content items or products by using any of the configured providers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the purposes of batch processing, automation, and other scripted actions, the [Translations management](translations_management_guide.md) package exposes a command that automatically translates content items or products by using any of the configured providers:
```

``` bash
php bin/console ibexa:translations:auto-translate-content \
    --content-id=42 \
    --provider=deepl \
    --from=eng-GB \
    --to=fre-FR
```

!!! tip "Command alias"

    You can use `ibexa:translations:translate-content` as an alias.

The command uses the same provider configuration and field value transformers as the UI.
Therefore, depending on the specific command options used, the result can be the same as if an editor [triggered the automated translation manually]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/translate_content/#add-new-translation).

> With the default settings, the most important difference is that a translation generated with a CLI command is instantly published, while a manual one requires that a human publishes it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without the `--draft-only` option, the translation generated with a CLI command is instantly published, while a manual one requires that a human publishes it.
```

"With the default settings" is a bit vague, I think we can be specific here - if you skip that single option

Can we also mention the change from https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/pull/3249/changes/dacea123bbe5f99a6d8d80171d18bdc1b33c4d09 here somehow?

> ### CLI command options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## CLI command options
```
If you merge the current 5.0 branch to yours, you'll get the updated markdownlint rules.

It detects that there's a header jump here (h1 -> h3), skipping h2
